---
title: Userful Resources for FHIR and OMOP
author:  xj
date: 2023-03-28 20:55:00 +0800
categories: [Collaboration]
tags: [FHIR, OMOP]
pin: true
---
     
 
1. **OMOP on FHIR** - This project represents a significant advancement in healthcare informatics by offering an FHIR Server implementation designed around the OMOP Common Data Model. It aims to bridge the gap between clinical data and standardized data models by providing a robust FHIR clinical API, thereby enhancing interoperability and data usability across healthcare systems. [Visit Repository](https://github.com/omoponfhir).

2. **FHIROntopOMOP** - A pioneering project that transforms OMOP data into a queryable Knowledge Graph, fully compliant with HL7 FHIR standards. This endeavor not only facilitates the integration of OMOP data into FHIR-based applications but also leverages the power of knowledge graphs to enable complex queries and analytics. [Visit Repository](https://github.com/fhircat/FHIROntopOMOP).

3. **fhir-omop-ig** - This implementation guide is an essential resource for developers and data scientists working at the intersection of FHIR and OMOP. It provides support for data conversion between the two standards, thereby facilitating a smoother integration process and enabling more effective data exchange and utilization in healthcare applications. [Visit Repository](https://github.com/HL7/fhir-omop-ig).

4. **fhir-to-omop** - A dedicated project focused on mapping FHIR data to OMOP data, addressing one of the critical challenges in healthcare data interoperability. By developing methodologies and tools for effective data mapping, this project ensures that FHIR data can be seamlessly integrated into OMOP-based systems, thereby enhancing the utility and applicability of healthcare data across different platforms and applications. [Visit Repository](https://github.com/NACHC-CAD/fhir-to-omop).

5. **FhirToCdm** - This project is at the forefront of facilitating the conversion from FHIR HL7 to OMOP CDM, addressing a crucial need in the healthcare informatics field for more efficient data conversion processes. By streamlining the transition from FHIR to OMOP, FhirToCdm enables healthcare organizations to more effectively utilize their data within the OMOP Common Data Model framework, thereby enhancing data analysis, interoperability, and patient care outcomes.  [Visit Repository](https://github.com/OHDSI/FhirToCdm).



